---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2015-10-14T17:26:48.743Z'
dateModified: '2015-10-14T17:26:34.394Z'
title: ''
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-10-14-25484f04-e2ba-46c3-a6e1-4eea815601a3.md
published: true
url: 25484f04-e2ba-46c3-a6e1-4eea815601a3/index.html
_type: Article

---
****
> 
> INNOVATORS IGNORE THE RULES NOT OUT OF CONTEMPT. THEY ARE SIMPLY MORE FOCUSED ON THEIR VISION THAN THE THINGS THAT STAND IN THE WAY.

It's about 4:30am and I'm getting ready to head to the gym before my work day. I regularly check my email to get a jump on the day before leaving my house and I came across this inspiring quote that really resonated with me and I'd like to share why...

Often times in our work, you run across 'naysayers'... These are the people who tend to stifle innovation, are afraid of change, and are set on cruise control for their careers. I like to call these people the C.Y.A.'ers and I have worked with a lot of them- I, however, am not one of them. First off though, I am not condoning going off and being a 'cowboy' and I do believe that rules in business have their place- they are there for legal purposes, trying to protect the brand, etc. But often processes and 'the way we do things' become so ingrained in the business that they are 'rules' for rules sake and greatly impact speed, agility, and creative thinking.

As a marketer, we have the obligation to always be pushing the status quo, looking for the next technology, the next vision, the next way to innovate our marketing to drive business impact. If you are not doing this, you will quickly become an obsolete marketer who is back in the stone age of marketing, strategy, and tools \[Like the companies who are just now doing 'flash mobs'\]. I encourage each of you to always be working on a vision of what COULD BE at your companies and marketing departments and then work to make that a reality.

Here is my quick guide to creating marketing impact & ignoring the rules when necessary to drive innovation:

1. Develop a vision of what could be at your company- marketing, internal improvements, etc. We all have things we'd like to change about where we work, so pick one that will have impact and build out your vision.
2. Once you have your vision, begin socializing it with your 'inner' circle at work to do a sanity check. If it passes this sanity check, begin socializing it to a broader community to further validate it.
3. Have a discussion with your manager if need be to get their buy-in & support (never underestimate the value of air cover).
4. Drive that vision until you reach resistance, when that happens, have a conversation with the 'nay' sayer and ask why your vision isn't possible
5. IF you hit resistance, try to collaborate and work through that. At the same time, look for other avenues to accomplish your vision (ie: if one person is the blocker, could you go to their peer, another manager, someone else who 'gets it' to move it forward).
6. Lastly, the big thing is to try and not burn bridges. Stay positive with the rule that is in your way and work to drive your innovation around it. Ultimately, if you can drive business impact with your vision, you should do it!

Happy to discuss further if anyone wants to! Leave a comment and I'll reach out.

Happy innovation and creative rule breaking!